Add example for migration to NATRF2022 (#53)
Pix4D/ntrip-catalog: example-natrf2022.md

# Example for NATRF2022

During the adoption of the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico, there can be confusion about the CRS used for the corrections.

> NTRIP providers will provide the service for the "old" and the "new" CRS during the transition period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the transition period until the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico is fully adopted, NTRIP providers will have to provide corrections for the "old" and the "new" CRS during the transition period. This will inevitably cause confusion about which is the correct CRS to use with a given NTRIP mount point.

```

[NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help to automatically identify it, making the transition soft and easy.

The misalignment of the earth's center [by 2.2 meters](https://geodesy.noaa.gov/datums/newdatums/) in NAD83(2011)
make differences between 1 and 2 meters (3 to 6 feet) between NAD83(2011) and NATRF2022.
That is not small, but not huge that would allow the user to notice it immediately.

> It is in the order of magnitude of many other errors, making it difficult to identify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help to automatically identify it, making the transition soft and easy.

The misalignment of the earth's center [by 2.2 meters](https://geodesy.noaa.gov/datums/newdatums/) in NAD83(2011)
make differences between 1 and 2 meters (3 to 6 feet) between NAD83(2011) and NATRF2022.
While the difference is not small, it is in the order of magnitude of many other errors, make it difficult for users to notice configuration errors immediately.

[NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help avoid configuration errors in the first place, as it can be used to select the correct CRS automatically based on the client device configuration (URL, port, mountpoint, position, ...)
```

> These examples for the transition from `NAD83(2011)` to `NATRF2022` in the USA [https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/](https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/) show how easy it is to identify them properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples for the transition from `NAD83(2011)` to `NATRF2022` in the USA [https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/](https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/) show how easy it is to specify a service providing both systems allowing automatic client selection.
```

> There are several options to make the difference. Here we show the two main ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NTRIP-catalog schema provides several methods to specify NTRIP services offered in multiple CRSs by the same provider. Here we show the two main ones:
```

>  - Use different mountpoints in the same URL:port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Use different mountpoints in the same URL
```
The port is part of a URL

>  - Use different port (or even URL) for the new CRS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Use different ports (or even hostnames) for the each CRS
```

## Example using different mountpoints

Some providers will add more mountpoints to the existing ones.
The names make the difference between the CRSs.

> Filtering by mountpoint name easily allow to differenciate the CRSs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filtering by mountpoint name easily allows to choose the correct CRS.
```

                    "FKP3M",
                    "MAC3",
                    "MAC3M",
                    "VRS3",
                    "VRS3M"
                ]
            },
            "crss": [
                {
                    "id": "EPSG:6319",
                    "name": "NAD83(2011)",
                    "epoch": 2010.0
                }
            ],
            "description": "NAD83(2011)",
            "comments": "These mountpoints will be deprecated in 2028"
        },
        {
            "filter": {
                "mountpoints": [
                    "MAC3NATRF",
                    "MAC3MNATRF",
                    "VRS3NATRF",
                    "VRS3MNATRF"
                ]
            },
            "crss": [
                {
                    "id": "EPSG:10967",
                    "name": "NATRF2022",
                    "epoch": 2020.0
                }
            ],
            "description": "NATRF2022 from the Modernized NSRS in CONUS",
            "comments": "Added in 2026"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Example using different ports

Some providers will create a new access point, using a different port or even a differenct hostname.

> This is probably useful if the list of mountpoints is already large, not making it even larger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is probably useful to not extend mountpoint lists which are already very long.
```

> In that case the configuration is straigt forward, just adding a new URL with its data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case the configuration is straightforward, just adding a new URL with its data.
```

# Example for NATRF2022

> During the transition period until the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico is fully adopted, NTRIP providers will have to provide corrections for the "old" and the "new" CRS during the transition period. This will inevitably cause confusion about which is the correct CRS to use with a given NTRIP mount point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the transition period until the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico is fully adopted, NTRIP providers will have to provide corrections for the "old" and the "new" CRSs. This will inevitably cause confusion as to which CRS is the correct one to use with given NTRIP mount point.
```
The prepositional phrase is redundant.

> During the transition period until the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico is fully adopted, NTRIP providers will have to provide corrections for the "old" and the "new" CRS during the transition period. This will inevitably cause confusion about which is the correct CRS to use with a given NTRIP mount point.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During the transition period until the Modernized NSRS in the USA, Canada and Mexico is fully adopted, NTRIP providers will have to provide corrections for the "old" and the "new" CRS during the transition period. This will inevitably cause confusion about which is the correct CRS to use with a given NTRIP mountpoint.
```

For consistency with the rest of the text

> [NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help to automatically identify it, making the transition soft and easy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help to automatically identify it, making the transition smooth and painless.
```

(hopefully not too much of an exaggeration? :))

The misalignment of the earth's center [by 2.2 meters](https://geodesy.noaa.gov/datums/newdatums/) in NAD83(2011)

> make differences between 1 and 2 meters (3 to 6 feet) between NAD83(2011) and NATRF2022.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
makes differences between 1 and 2 meters (3 to 6 feet) between NAD83(2011) and NATRF2022.
```

Reviewer 2: results in?

> While the difference is not small, it is in the order of magnitude of many other errors, make it difficult for users to notice configuration errors immediately.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While the difference is not small, it is in the order of magnitude of many other errors, making it difficult for users to notice configuration errors immediately.
```

[NTRIP-catalog](https://ntrip-catalog.org) can help avoid configuration errors in the first place, as it can be used to select the correct CRS automatically based on the client device configuration (URL, port, mountpoint, position, ...)

> These examples for the transition from `NAD83(2011)` to `NATRF2022` in the USA [https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/](https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/) show how easy it is to specify a service providing both systems allowing automatic client selection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These examples for the transition from `NAD83(2011)` to `NATRF2022` in the USA [https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/](https://beta.ngs.noaa.gov/) show how easy it is to specify a service providing both systems, allowing automatic client selection.
```

The NTRIP-catalog schema provides several methods to specify NTRIP services offered in multiple CRSs by the same provider. Here we show the two main ones:
 - Use different mountpoints in the same URL

>  - Use different ports (or even hostnames) for the each CRS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Use different ports (or even hostnames) for each CRS
```

> Do not wait for `NATRF2022` (and its siblings `PATRF2022`, `CATRF2022` and `MATRF2022`) to be officially released.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There is no need to wait for `NATRF2022` (and its siblings `PATRF2022`, `CATRF2022` and `MATRF2022`) to be officially released.
```

> You can include the configuration for `NAD83(2011)` now, and update it once you know the new data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can include the configuration for `NAD83(2011)` now, and update it to include the new mount points once they are released and you know the new data.
```

> You can include the configuration for `NAD83(2011)` now, and update it to include the new mount points once they are released and you know the new data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can include the configuration for `NAD83(2011)` now, and update it to include the new mountpoints once they are released and you know the new data.
```

Same here

> ## Example using different mountpoints

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using different mountpoints
```

Feels redundant given the H1, but that may be a matter of taste (same below).

Some providers will add more mountpoints to the existing ones.

> The names make the difference between the CRSs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The names distinguish between the CRSs.
```

> Filtering by mountpoint name easily allows to choose the correct CRS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Filtering by mountpoint name easily allows clients to choose the correct CRS.
```

> Filtering by mountpoint name easily allows clients to choose the correct CRS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Filtering by mountpoint name allows clients to choose the correct CRS easily.
```

(has more emphasis)

    "streams": [
        {
            "filter": {
                "mountpoints": [
                    "FKP3",
                    "FKP3M",
                    "MAC3",
                    "MAC3M",
                    "VRS3",
                    "VRS3M"
                ]
            },
            "crss": [
                {
                    "id": "EPSG:6319",
                    "name": "NAD83(2011)",
                    "epoch": 2010.0
                }
            ],
            "description": "NAD83(2011)",
            "comments": "These mountpoints will be deprecated in 2028"
        },
        {
            "filter": {
                "mountpoints": [
                    "MAC3NATRF",
                    "MAC3MNATRF",
                    "VRS3NATRF",
                    "VRS3MNATRF"
                ]
            },
            "crss": [
                {
                    "id": "EPSG:10967",
                    "name": "NATRF2022",
                    "epoch": 2020.0
                }
            ],
            "description": "NATRF2022 from the Modernized NSRS in CONUS",
            "comments": "Added in 2026"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Example using different ports

> Some providers will create a new access point, using a different port or even a differenct hostname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some providers will create a new access point, using a different port or even a different hostname.
```

> Some providers will create a new access point, using a different port or even a different hostname.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some providers will create a new access point using a different port or even a different hostname.
```

> This is probably useful to not extend mountpoint lists which are already very long.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is probably better to not extend mountpoint lists which are already very long.
```

> In that case the configuration is straightforward, just adding a new URL with its data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In that case, the configuration is straightforward: just add a new URL with its data.
```
